SamcoEnhanced/README.md, before:

# SAMCO Prow Enhanced+ - The Enclosed Instruction Book!

## Table of Contents:
 - [Setup Guide](#setup-guide)
   - [IR Emitter Setup](#ir-emitter-setup)
   - [Arduino Setup & Libraries](#arduino-setup--libraries)
   - [Sketch Configuration](#sketch-configuration)
   - [Define Buttons & Timers](#define-buttons--timers)
 - [Operations Manual](#operations-manual)
   - [Run Modes](#run-modes)
   - [Default Buttons](#default-buttons)
   - [Default Buttons in Pause Mode](#default-buttons-in-pause-mode)
   - [How to Calibrate](#how-to-calibrate)
   - [Advanced Calibration](#advanced-calibration)
   - [IR Camera Sensitivity](#ir-camera-sensitivity)
   - [Profiles](#profiles)
   - [Saving settings to non-volatile memory](#saving-settings-to-non-volatile-memory)
   - [Processing Mode](#processing-mode)
 - [Technical Details & Assorted Errata](#technical-details--assorted-errata)
   - [Change USB ID for Multiple Guns](#change-usb-id-for-multiple-guns)
   - [Button Combo Masks](#button-combo-masks)
   - [Other Constants](#other-constants)
   - [Profile Array](#profile-array)

## Setup Guide

### IR Emitter setup
The IR emitters must be arranged with 2 emitters on opposite edges of your screen/monitor forming a rectangle or square. For example, if you're playing on a small PC monitor, you can use 2 Wii sensor bars; one on top of your screen and one below. However, if you're playing on a TV, you should consider building a set of high power black IR LEDs and arranging them like (larger) sensor bars at the top and bottom of the display.

### Arduino Setup & Libraries
If you're using Arduino IDE for the first time, the setup is relatively simple (*applies to the 'Legacy' 1.8.x version!):
 1. [Install the Arduino IDE for your system](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software) (or for Linux users, from your system's package manager)
    * *Windows users, install the USB drivers when prompted.*
 3. Once installed, open Arduino, and from the top bar, click on __*File -> Preferences.*__
 4. In the Preferences window, the *Additional Boards Manager URLs* path should be empty. Copy and paste this string:
    `https://adafruit.github.io/arduino-board-index/package_adafruit_index.json,https://github.com/earlephilhower/arduino-pico/releases/download/global/package_rp2040_index.json`
    and paste it in there. Click OK to confirm.
 5. Back in the main window, go to __*Tools -> Board: {some board name} -> Boards Manager.*__
 6. Install the board files for the version of your choice:
    * M0, M4 boards: Install `Adafruit SAMD Boards`
    * RP2040: Install `Raspberry Pi Pico/RP 2040`
 7. **For Adafruit users:** go to __*Tools -> Manage Libraries...*__, and install the following libraries for the board of your choice:
    * M0, M4 boards: `Adafruit DotStar` & `Adafruit SPI Flash`
    * RP2040 boards: `Adafruit NeoPixel` & `Adafruit TinyUSB`
 8. Under __*Tools*__, make sure to select your board of choice, and set the compiler optimize level to `Faster (-O3)`/`Optimize Even More (-O3)`
    * **Most boards** should use the default `Arduino` USB stack; **for RP2040 users,** change the USB stack to `Adafruit TinyUSB`.
    * *Linux users should have their user in the `uucp` group. If not, add oneself to it (`sudo usermod -a -G uucp username`), then relogin to see the board's serial port.*
   
Extract the `SamcoEnhanced` and `libraries` folders from the source repository/releases into your Arduino sketches folder. Defaults are:
* Windows: `Documents\Arduino`
* Linux: `~/Arduino`

Now just go to File -> Open, and load `SamcoEnhanced.ino`.

### Sketch Configuration
The sketch is configured for a [SAMCO 2.0](https://www.ebay.com/itm/184699412596) (GunCon 2) build... *ish.* Because of the additions added (that may or may not conflict with a SAMCO 2.0 board's pin mapping), you'll probably have to adjust what pins are arranged to what buttons manually, and which pins are reserved for the Rumble and Solenoid signal wires (if any). You can still use a loose board for a custom non-Guncon build, just change the pinout as you see fit - see section below on [Defining Buttons & Timers](#define-buttons--timers).

A0 is reserved for an optional temperature sensor if you plan to use a solenoid - it is recommended if you use a weaker/smaller solenoid or intend to run it in autofire mode for extended periods of time, as the sketch will temper activation at higher temperature thresholds (that are configurable!), but will function without.

### Define Buttons & Timers
Refer to Line 119 for the pins of the tactile extras (rumble, solenoid, hardware switches if need be) and the adjustable settings (solenoid activation, rumble event length, etc.), and Line 140-onwards for the button constants.

Remember that the sketch uses the Arduino GPIO pin numbers; on the Adafruit Itsybitsy RP2040, these are the silkscreen labels on the **underside** of the microcontroller (marked GP00-29). Also note that this does not apply to the analog pins (A0-A3), which does work. All the other Adafruit boards don't have this discrepancy.
![Itsybitsy RP2040 Back](https://cdn-learn.adafruit.com/assets/assets/000/101/909/original/adafruit_products_ItsyRP_pinouts_back.jpg)
The default button:pins layout used is as follows (aside from the power pins and the camera, you may deviate from this as much as desired so long as that's reflected in the sketch!):
![Schematic](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SeongGino/ir-light-gun-plus/plus/SamcoPlus%20Schematic.png)

Once the sketch is configured to your liking, plug the board into a USB port, click Upload (the arrow button next to the checkmark) and your board will reconnect a few times until it's recognized as a combined mouse and keyboard device!

## Operations Manual
The light gun operates as an absolute positioning mouse (like a stylus!) until the button/combination is pressed to enter pause mode. The Arduino serial monitor (or any serial terminal) can be used to see information while the gun is paused and during the calibration procedure.

Note that the buttons in pause mode (and to enter pause mode) activate when the last button of the combination releases. This is used to detect and differentiate button combinations vs a single button press.

* Note: The mouse position updates at 209Hz, so it is extremely responsive.

### Run modes
The gun has the following modes of operation:
1. Normal - The mouse position updates from each frame from the IR positioning camera (no averaging)
2. Averaging - The position is calculated from a 2 frame moving average (current + previous position)
3. Averaging2 - The position is calculated from a weighted average of the current frame and 2 previous frames
4. Processing - Test mode for use with the Processing sketch (this mode is prevented from being assigned to a profile)

The averaging modes are subtle but do reduce the motion jitter a bit without adding much if any noticeable lag.

### Default Buttons
- Trigger: Left mouse button
- A: Right mouse button
- B: Middle mouse button
- C/Reload: Mouse button 4
- Start: 1 key
- Select: 5 key
- Up/Down/Left/Right: Keyboard arrow keys
- Pedal: Mouse button 5
- C + Start: Esc key
- C + Select: Enter Pause mode

#### Default Buttons in Pause mode
- A, B, Start, Select: select a profile
- Start + Down: Normal gun mode (averaging disabled)
- Start + Up: Normal gun with averaging, switch between the 2 averaging modes (use serial monitor to see the setting)
- Start + A: Processing mode for use with the Processing sketch
- B + Down: Decrease IR camera sensitivity (use serial monitor to see the setting)
- B + Up: Increase IR camera sensitivity (use serial monitor to see the setting)
- C/Reload: Exit pause mode
- Trigger: Begin calibration
- Start + Select: save settings to non-volatile memory (EEPROM or Flash depending on the board configuration)

### How to calibrate
1. Press the **C Button/Reload** to enter pause mode.
2. Press a button to select a profile unless you want to calibration the current profile.
3. Pull the **Trigger** to begin calibration.
4. Shoot the pointer at center of the screen and hold the trigger down for 1/3 of a second while keeping a steady aim.
5. The mouse should lock to the vertical axis. Use the **A**/**B** buttons (can be held down) to adjust the mouse vertical range. **A** will increase and **B** will decrease. Track the pointer at the top and bottom edges of the screen while adjusting.
6. Pull the **Trigger** for horizontal calibration.
7. The mouse should lock to the horizontal axis. Use the **A**/**B** buttons (can be held down) to adjust the mouse horizontal range. **A** will increase and **B** will decrease. Track the pointer at the left and right edges of the screen while adjusting.
8. Pull the **Trigger** to finish and return to run mode. Values will apply to the currently selected profile in memory.
9. Recommended (for ATmega users): After confirming the calibration is good, enter pause mode and press Start and Select to save the calibration to non-volatile memory.
   * Else, for **RP2040 users:** Open serial monitor and update the `xCenter`, `yCenter`, `xScale`, and `yScale` values in the profile data array in the sketch.
 
Calibration can be cancelled during any step by pressing **Reload** or **Start** or **Select**. The gun will return to pause mode if you cancel the calibration.

#### Advanced calibration
- During center calibration, press **A** to skip this step and proceed to the vertical calibration
- During vertical calibration, tap **Up** or **Down** to manually fine tune the vertical offset
- During horizontal calibration, tap **Left** or **Right** to manually fine tune the horizontal offset

### IR Camera Sensitivity
The IR camera sensitivity can be adjusted. It is recommended to adjust the sensitivity as high as possible. If the IR sensitivity is too low then the pointer precision can suffer. However, too high of a sensitivity can cause the camera to pick up unwanted reflections that will cause the pointer to jump around. It is impossible to know which setting will work best since it is dependent on the specific setup. It depends on how bright the IR emitters are, the distance, camera lens, and if shiny surfaces may cause reflections.

A sign that the IR sensitivity is too low is if the pointer moves in noticeable coarse steps, as if it has a low resolution to it. If you have the sensitivity level set to max and you notice this then the IR emitters may not be bright enough.

A sign that the IR sensitivity is too high is if the pointer jumps around erratically. If this happens only while aiming at certain areas of the screen then this is a good indication a reflection is being detected by the camera. If the sensitivity is at max, step it down to high or minimum. Obviously the best solution is to eliminate the reflective surface. The Processing sketch can help daignose this problem since it will visually display the 4 IR points.

### Profiles
The sketch is configured with 8 profiles available. Each profile has its own calibration data, run mode, and IR camera sensitivity settings. Each profile can be selected from pause mode by assigning a unique button or combination.

#### Saving Settings to Non-Volatile Memory
The calibration data and profile settings can be saved in non-volatile memory. The currently selected profile is saved as the default for when the light gun is plugged in.

For ItsyBitsy M0 and M4 boards the external on-board SPI flash memory is used. For ATmega32U4 the EEPROM is used. The RP2040 *should* have flash memory reserved too, but doesn't seem to work unfortunately. :(

#### Processing Mode
The Processing mode is intended for use with the [SAMCO Processing sketch](https://github.com/samuelballantyne/IR-Light-Gun/tree/master/Samco_4IR_Beta/Samco_4IR_Processing_Sketch_BETA). Download [Processing](processing.org) and the 4IR processing sketch. The Processing sketch lets you visually see the IR points as seen by the camera. This is very useful aligning the camera when building your light gun and for testing that the camera tracks all 4 points properly, as well as observing possible reflections.

## Technical Details & Assorted Errata

### Change USB ID for Multiple Guns
If you intend to use multiple SAMCO guns, the Arduino software does not have an immediately intuitive way of distinguishing different boards of the same type; ergo, if you have two RP2040 guns, they will both be `Adafruit ItsyBitsy RP2040 Mouse/Keyboard` with the same USB identifier. This will confuse RetroArch and/or TeknoParrot (or other apps that directly addresses individual mice) which won't be fun for play; or you might just want to change the name for flare. All good!

To change this, go to the Arduino system directory (NOT the same directory as where your libraries and sketches go):
* Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\Arduino15\packages\{adafruit|rp2040}\hardware\$boardFamily\$versionNumber`
* Linux: `~/.arduino15/packages/{adafruit|rp2040}/hardware/$boardFamily/$versionNumber`

Edit `boards.txt`. Taking the RP2040 as the example, the lines you're looking for should look something like:
```
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.vid=0x239a
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.pid=0x80fd
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.usb_manufacturer="Adafruit"
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.usb_product="ItsyBitsy 2040"
// The 'build' part is VERY important, as this is the one that determines what the board will be flashed into!
```
Edit the lines to anything that's *different* from a USB ID that's already used; e.g., changing `0x80fd` to `0x80fe` for a second RP2040 gun (USB IDs are in hexidecimal/Base15, names are normal alphanumeric strings).

**The only one that's necessary to change** is the __*vid/pid*__ pair, but you might also want to change what name they report as to differentiate between multiple gun devices in TP or RA. Unfortunately, *you will have to change this back and forth **every time** you're switching between guns* if you need to reflash the board. You might want to make a safe copy of the original `boards.txt` and make one or more copies of the file with the desired USB identifiers you want to use; switching between them each time before opening the IDE. If you do this often, this could be automated via script if so desired.

### Button Combo Masks
Below the button definitions are a bunch of constants that configure the buttons to control the gun. For example, enter and exit pause mode, and changing various settings. See the comments above each value for details.

Most button behaviours can be assigned a combination. If the comment says a button combination is used then it activates when the last button of the combination releases.

### Other Constants
- `IRSeen0Color` colour for the RGB LED when no IR points are seen
- `CalModeColor` colour for the RGB LED while calibrating

### Profile Array
There is a `ProfileCount` constant that defines the number of profiles. The `profileData` array has the default values for the profile. If there are no settings saved in non-volatile memory, then these values are used. There is no need to change these values if settings are saved to non-volatile memory.

Find the `profileDesc` array to configure each profile. The profile descriptor allows you to specify:
- A button/combination to select the profile while in pause mode
- Colour used to light up an RGB LED (ItsyBitsy M0 and M4 include a DotStar) when paused
- A text description for the button/combination
- An optional text label or brief description

Commit message:

Minor instruction manual clarifications
Since the EEPROM is working, all compatible boards will use non-volatile storage now, so there's no need to change the sketch's defaults. The settings section has been changed to reflect this.
Small clarifications regarding profiles selection.

SamcoEnhanced/README.md, after:

# SAMCO Prow Enhanced+ - The Enclosed Instruction Book!

## Table of Contents:
 - [Setup Guide](#setup-guide)
   - [IR Emitter Setup](#ir-emitter-setup)
   - [Arduino Setup & Libraries](#arduino-setup--libraries)
   - [Sketch Configuration](#sketch-configuration)
   - [Define Buttons & Timers](#define-buttons--timers)
 - [Operations Manual](#operations-manual)
   - [Run Modes](#run-modes)
   - [Default Buttons](#default-buttons)
   - [Default Buttons in Pause Mode](#default-buttons-in-pause-mode)
   - [How to Calibrate](#how-to-calibrate)
   - [Advanced Calibration](#advanced-calibration)
   - [IR Camera Sensitivity](#ir-camera-sensitivity)
   - [Profiles](#profiles)
   - [Saving settings to non-volatile memory](#saving-settings-to-non-volatile-memory)
   - [Processing Mode](#processing-mode)
 - [Technical Details & Assorted Errata](#technical-details--assorted-errata)
   - [Change USB ID for Multiple Guns](#change-usb-id-for-multiple-guns)
   - [Button Combo Masks](#button-combo-masks)
   - [Other Constants](#other-constants)
   - [Profile Array](#profile-array)

## Setup Guide

### IR Emitter setup
The IR emitters must be arranged with 2 emitters on opposite edges of your screen/monitor forming a rectangle or square. For example, if you're playing on a small PC monitor, you can use 2 Wii sensor bars; one on top of your screen and one below. However, if you're playing on a TV, you should consider building a set of high power black IR LEDs and arranging them like (larger) sensor bars at the top and bottom of the display.

### Arduino Setup & Libraries
If you're using Arduino IDE for the first time, the setup is relatively simple (*applies to the 'Legacy' 1.8.x version!):
 1. [Install the Arduino IDE for your system](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software) (or for Linux users, from your system's package manager)
    * *Windows users, install the USB drivers when prompted.*
 3. Once installed, open Arduino, and from the top bar, click on __*File -> Preferences.*__
 4. In the Preferences window, the *Additional Boards Manager URLs* path should be empty. Copy and paste this string:
    `https://adafruit.github.io/arduino-board-index/package_adafruit_index.json,https://github.com/earlephilhower/arduino-pico/releases/download/global/package_rp2040_index.json`
    and paste it in there. Click OK to confirm.
 5. Back in the main window, go to __*Tools -> Board: {some board name} -> Boards Manager.*__
 6. Install the board files for the version of your choice:
    * M0, M4 boards: Install `Adafruit SAMD Boards`
    * RP2040: Install `Raspberry Pi Pico/RP 2040`
 7. **For Adafruit users:** go to __*Tools -> Manage Libraries...*__, and install the following libraries for the board of your choice:
    * M0, M4 boards: `Adafruit DotStar` & `Adafruit SPI Flash`
    * RP2040 boards: `Adafruit NeoPixel` & `Adafruit TinyUSB`
 8. Under __*Tools*__, make sure to select your board of choice, and set the compiler optimize level to `Faster (-O3)`/`Optimize Even More (-O3)`
    * **Most boards** should use the default `Arduino` USB stack; **for RP2040 users,** change the USB stack to `Adafruit TinyUSB`.
    * *Linux users should have their user in the `uucp` group. If not, add oneself to it (`sudo usermod -a -G uucp username`), then relogin to see the board's serial port.*
   
Extract the `SamcoEnhanced` and `libraries` folders from the source repository/releases into your Arduino sketches folder. Defaults are:
* Windows: `Documents\Arduino`
* Linux: `~/Arduino`

Now just go to File -> Open, and load `SamcoEnhanced.ino`.

### Sketch Configuration
The sketch is configured for a [SAMCO 2.0](https://www.ebay.com/itm/184699412596) (GunCon 2) build... *ish.* Because of the additions added (that may or may not conflict with a SAMCO 2.0 board's pin mapping), you'll probably have to adjust what pins are arranged to what buttons manually, and which pins are reserved for the Rumble and Solenoid signal wires (if any). You can still use a loose board for a custom non-Guncon build, just change the pinout as you see fit - see section below on [Defining Buttons & Timers](#define-buttons--timers).

A0 is reserved for an optional temperature sensor if you plan to use a solenoid - it is recommended if you use a weaker/smaller solenoid or intend to run it in autofire mode for extended periods of time, as the sketch will temper activation at higher temperature thresholds (that are configurable!), but will function without.

### Define Buttons & Timers
Refer to Line 119 for the pins of the tactile extras (rumble, solenoid, hardware switches if need be) and the adjustable settings (solenoid activation, rumble event length, etc.), and Line 140-onwards for the button constants.

Remember that the sketch uses the Arduino GPIO pin numbers; on the Adafruit Itsybitsy RP2040, these are the silkscreen labels on the **underside** of the microcontroller (marked GP00-29). Also note that this does not apply to the analog pins (A0-A3), which does work. All the other Adafruit boards don't have this discrepancy.
![Itsybitsy RP2040 Back](https://cdn-learn.adafruit.com/assets/assets/000/101/909/original/adafruit_products_ItsyRP_pinouts_back.jpg)
The default button:pins layout used is as follows (aside from the power pins and the camera, you may deviate from this as much as desired so long as that's reflected in the sketch!):
![Schematic](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SeongGino/ir-light-gun-plus/plus/SamcoPlus%20Schematic.png)

Once the sketch is configured to your liking, plug the board into a USB port, click Upload (the arrow button next to the checkmark) and your board will reconnect a few times until it's recognized as a combined mouse and keyboard device!

## Operations Manual
The light gun operates as an absolute positioning mouse (like a stylus!) until the button/combination is pressed to enter pause mode. The Arduino serial monitor (or any serial terminal) can be used to see information while the gun is paused and during the calibration procedure.

Note that the buttons in pause mode (and to enter pause mode) activate when the last button of the combination releases. This is used to detect and differentiate button combinations vs a single button press.

* Note: The mouse position updates at 209Hz, so it is extremely responsive.

### Run modes
The gun has the following modes of operation:
1. Normal - The mouse position updates from each frame from the IR positioning camera (no averaging)
2. Averaging - The position is calculated from a 2 frame moving average (current + previous position)
3. Averaging2 - The position is calculated from a weighted average of the current frame and 2 previous frames
4. Processing - Test mode for use with the Processing sketch (this mode is prevented from being assigned to a profile)

The averaging modes are subtle but do reduce the motion jitter a bit without adding much if any noticeable lag.

### Default Buttons
- Trigger: Left mouse button
- A: Right mouse button
- B: Middle mouse button
- C/Reload: Mouse button 4
- Start: 1 key
- Select: 5 key
- Up/Down/Left/Right: Keyboard arrow keys
- Pedal: Mouse button 5
- C + Start: Esc key
- C + Select: Enter Pause mode

#### Default Buttons in Pause mode
- A, B, Start, Select: select a profile
- Start + Down: Normal gun mode (averaging disabled)
- Start + Up: Normal gun with averaging, switch between the 2 averaging modes (use serial monitor to see the setting)
- Start + A: Processing mode for use with the Processing sketch
- B + Down: Decrease IR camera sensitivity (use serial monitor to see the setting)
- B + Up: Increase IR camera sensitivity (use serial monitor to see the setting)
- C/Reload: Exit pause mode
- Trigger: Begin calibration
- Start + Select: save settings to non-volatile memory (EEPROM or Flash depending on the board configuration)

### How to calibrate
1. Press the **C Button/Reload** to enter pause mode.
2. Press a button to select a profile unless you want to calibration the current profile.
3. Pull the **Trigger** to begin calibration.
4. Shoot the pointer at center of the screen and hold the trigger down for 1/3 of a second while keeping a steady aim.
5. The mouse should lock to the vertical axis. Use the **A**/**B** buttons (can be held down) to adjust the mouse vertical range. **A** will increase and **B** will decrease. Track the pointer at the top and bottom edges of the screen while adjusting.
6. Pull the **Trigger** for horizontal calibration.
7. The mouse should lock to the horizontal axis. Use the **A**/**B** buttons (can be held down) to adjust the mouse horizontal range. **A** will increase and **B** will decrease. Track the pointer at the left and right edges of the screen while adjusting.
8. Pull the **Trigger** to finish and return to run mode. Values will apply to the currently selected profile in memory.
9. Recommended (for ATmega users): After confirming the calibration is good, enter pause mode and press Start and Select to save the calibration to non-volatile memory.
   * Else, for **RP2040 users:** Open serial monitor and update the `xCenter`, `yCenter`, `xScale`, and `yScale` values in the profile data array in the sketch.
 
Calibration can be cancelled during any step by pressing **Reload** or **Start** or **Select**. The gun will return to pause mode if you cancel the calibration.

#### Advanced calibration
- During center calibration, press **A** to skip this step and proceed to the vertical calibration
- During vertical calibration, tap **Up** or **Down** to manually fine tune the vertical offset
- During horizontal calibration, tap **Left** or **Right** to manually fine tune the horizontal offset

### IR Camera Sensitivity
The IR camera sensitivity can be adjusted. It is recommended to adjust the sensitivity as high as possible. If the IR sensitivity is too low then the pointer precision can suffer. However, too high of a sensitivity can cause the camera to pick up unwanted reflections that will cause the pointer to jump around. It is impossible to know which setting will work best since it is dependent on the specific setup. It depends on how bright the IR emitters are, the distance, camera lens, and if shiny surfaces may cause reflections.

A sign that the IR sensitivity is too low is if the pointer moves in noticeable coarse steps, as if it has a low resolution to it. If you have the sensitivity level set to max and you notice this then the IR emitters may not be bright enough.

A sign that the IR sensitivity is too high is if the pointer jumps around erratically. If this happens only while aiming at certain areas of the screen then this is a good indication a reflection is being detected by the camera. If the sensitivity is at max, step it down to high or minimum. Obviously the best solution is to eliminate the reflective surface. The Processing sketch can help daignose this problem since it will visually display the 4 IR points.

### Profiles
The sketch is configured with 4 profiles available (with up to 8 possible if desired, correlating to the d-pad). Each profile has its own calibration data, run mode, and IR camera sensitivity settings. Each profile can be selected from pause mode by pressing the associated button (A/B/Start/Select).

#### Saving Settings to Non-Volatile Memory
The calibration data and profile settings can be saved in non-volatile memory by pressing Start + Select (by default). The currently selected profile is saved as the default for when the light gun is plugged in.

For ItsyBitsy M0 and M4 boards, the external on-board SPI flash memory is used; for ATmega32U4 and RP2040, the EEPROM is used (in the 2040's case, a simulated EEPROM provided by the USB stack that actually writes to program flash space, but EEPROM nonetheless).

#### Processing Mode
The Processing mode is intended for use with the [SAMCO Processing sketch](https://github.com/samuelballantyne/IR-Light-Gun/tree/master/Samco_4IR_Beta/Samco_4IR_Processing_Sketch_BETA). Download [Processing](processing.org) and the 4IR processing sketch. The Processing sketch lets you visually see the IR points as seen by the camera. This is very useful aligning the camera when building your light gun and for testing that the camera tracks all 4 points properly, as well as observing possible reflections.

## Technical Details & Assorted Errata

### Change USB ID for Multiple Guns
If you intend to use multiple SAMCO guns, the Arduino software does not have an immediately intuitive way of distinguishing different boards of the same type; ergo, if you have two RP2040 guns, they will both be `Adafruit ItsyBitsy RP2040 Mouse/Keyboard` with the same USB identifier. This will confuse RetroArch and/or TeknoParrot (or other apps that directly addresses individual mice) which won't be fun for play; or you might just want to change the name for flare. All good!

To change this, go to the Arduino system directory (NOT the same directory as where your libraries and sketches go):
* Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\Arduino15\packages\{adafruit|rp2040}\hardware\$boardFamily\$versionNumber`
* Linux: `~/.arduino15/packages/{adafruit|rp2040}/hardware/$boardFamily/$versionNumber`

Edit `boards.txt`. Taking the RP2040 as the example, the lines you're looking for should look something like:
```
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.vid=0x239a
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.pid=0x80fd
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.usb_manufacturer="Adafruit"
adafruit_itsybitsy.build.usb_product="ItsyBitsy 2040"
// The 'build' part is VERY important, as this is the one that determines what the board will be flashed into!
```
Edit the lines to anything that's *different* from a USB ID that's already used; e.g., changing `0x80fd` to `0x80fe` for a second RP2040 gun (USB IDs are in hexidecimal/Base15, names are normal alphanumeric strings).

**The only one that's necessary to change** is the __*vid/pid*__ pair, but you might also want to change what name they report as to differentiate between multiple gun devices in TP or RA. Unfortunately, *you will have to change this back and forth **every time** you're switching between guns* if you need to reflash the board. You might want to make a safe copy of the original `boards.txt` and make one or more copies of the file with the desired USB identifiers you want to use; switching between them each time before opening the IDE. If you do this often, this could be automated via script if so desired.

### Button Combo Masks
Below the button definitions are a bunch of constants that configure the buttons to control the gun. For example, enter and exit pause mode, and changing various settings. See the comments above each value for details.

Most button behaviours can be assigned a combination. If the comment says a button combination is used then it activates when the last button of the combination releases.

### Other Constants
- `IRSeen0Color` colour for the RGB LED when no IR points are seen
- `CalModeColor` colour for the RGB LED while calibrating

### Profile Array
There is a `ProfileCount` constant that defines the number of profiles. The `profileData` array has the default values for the profile. If there are no settings saved in non-volatile memory, then these values are used. There is no need to change these values if settings are saved to non-volatile memory, as that will always override these (even across board reflashes, unless you nuke the program flash by other means).

Find the `profileDesc` array to configure each profile. The profile descriptor allows you to specify:
- A button/combination to select the profile while in pause mode
- Colour used to light up an RGB LED (ItsyBitsy M0 and M4 include a DotStar) when paused
- A text description for the button/combination
- An optional text label or brief description
